.TH gtr 1 "September 2025" "gtr" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gtr \- Git worktree helper for fast parallel development
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gtr
\fICOMMAND\fR [GLOBAL OPTIONS] [ARGS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgtr\fR streamlines working with \fBgit-worktree(1)\fR by quickly creating,
inspecting, fixing, and pruning per-branch worktrees. It also copies local-only
files (like .env*local*) into new worktrees and can run pnpm setup automatically.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B create, c \fIname...\fR
Create one or more worktrees from the current branch or \fI--base\fR.
.TP
.B remove, rm \fIname...\fR
Remove worktrees; optionally delete their branches when safe.
.TP
.B cd \fIname\fR
Change directory to a worktree path.
.TP
.B list, ls, l
List all worktrees.
.TP
.B idea, i \fI[summary|list|open]\fR
Manage development ideas across worktrees (default: create).
.TP
.B claude \fIname\fR
Run \fBclaude\fR in the specified worktree directory, creating it if prompted.
.TP
.B prune
Remove worktrees whose branches have been merged (or are ancestors) of \fI--base\fR.
.TP
.B doctor [\fIname\fR]
Check a worktree for missing or diverged local files; optionally fix.
.TP
.B init
Initialize or repair the \fB.gtr/config\fR for this repository (may be run from any worktree/branch).
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B --prefix \fIPREFIX\fR
Set branch prefix (default: \fBclaude\fR).
.TP
.B --username \fIUSERNAME\fR
Set username for branch naming (default: current user).
.TP
.B --editor \fIEDITOR\fR
Editor to open worktrees after creation (default: \fBcursor\fR).
.TP
.B --no-open
Do not open the editor after creating worktrees.
.TP
.B --no-install
Skip running pnpm commands during worktree creation.
.TP
.B --base \fIBRANCH\fR
Set base branch for creation/pruning (defaults vary by command).
.TP
.B --uncommitted \fItrue|false\fR
Include uncommitted changes in worktree (default: \fBtrue\fR).
.SH COMMAND OPTIONS
.TP
.B remove, rm
\fB--force\fR, \fB--dry-run\fR
.TP
.B prune
\fB--base\fR, \fB--dry-run\fR, \fB--force\fR
.TP
.B doctor
\fB--fix\fR, \fB--force\fR
.TP
.B init
\fB--doctor\fR, \fB--fix\fR
.TP
.B idea list
\fB--mine\fR, \fB--todo\fR, \fB--status=STATUS\fR, \fB--filter=STRING\fR
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration lives at \fB.gtr/config\fR in INI-like sections.
.PP
[files_to_copy]
.IP
Glob patterns (one per line) copied from the main repo into new worktrees.
Defaults include:
.IP
\&.env*local*, .env.*local*, .claude/, .anthropic/
.PP
[settings]
.IP
\fIeditor\fR, \fIprefix\fR, \fIrun_pnpm\fR, \fIauto_open\fR, optional \fIworktree_base\fR.
.PP
[doctor]
.IP
\fIshow_detailed_diffs\fR, \fIauto_fix\fR.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GTR_BASE_DIR
Overrides the base directory where worktrees are created (defaults to
\fI$HOME/Documents/dev/worktrees\fR). When \fBsettings.worktree_base\fR is set in
\fB.gtr/config\fR, it takes precedence and is interpreted relative to the main repo
unless absolute.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .gtr/config
Project configuration file in the main repository.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Create worktrees
$ gtr create feature0
$ gtr create feat1 feat2
$ gtr create feature0 --base main --no-install --no-open

# Navigate and run tools
$ gtr cd feature0
$ gtr claude feature0

# Idea management
$ gtr idea
$ gtr idea 'Performance optimization'
$ gtr idea list
$ gtr idea list --mine --filter=bug
$ gtr idea open
$ gtr idea open --mine

# Cleanup
$ gtr rm feature0 --dry-run
$ gtr prune --base develop --force

# Health check
$ gtr doctor feature0 --fix --force

# Initialize configuration
$ gtr init
$ gtr init --doctor --fix
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
git-worktree(1), git-branch(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Ryan W. Jackson and contributors
